MIDTERM Q

Q1 
R[A,B],S[B,C], both not empty
SELECT DISTINCT A, FROM R,s
SELECT A, FROM R
is it the same number of tuples? Yes. Always

Q2
Problem with Select Year,SUM(quantity)
FROM Sales
WHERE YEAR >= number AND YEAR <= Number

The problem is that if we don't have a sale in a specific year, that year won't show up in the table.

Q3
SELECT S.B+10,T.C+10 FROM S JOIN T ON S.B*10 >= T.*10
20,20,null
30,20,null
40,20,nll

Q4
Professor(name,office,phone)
Course(course#,year,instructor name,enrolment)
enroll(student id,course#,year)

Students who have taken more than one course from the same professor in the same year
withouth group by,sum,count,all,in

Create multiple instances of the same table and lots of AND


Q5
Describe a division in natural language withouth database-speak


Q6
Query describing one table minus another table where part.cost < part2.cost
Gets the most expensive part

Q7
Prodcut(maker,model,type)
Pc(model,speed,hd)
laptop(model,speed,hd)
printer(model,colour,type)
Get the PCs (only pcs) with 3 speeds

Q8
Animals,
WaterOrganism, PK name referencing ANimals
Fishes, PK name, FK type Referencing waterorganism


What type of relationship do they have?

Q9
C from R where A=B
table where NULL values are present
NULL != NULL
therefore empty table as a result

Q10

Is (B,C,A) is a FK for S referencing T?

Yes, but we cannot be sure. (the values in bca were present in T, though they were repeated).

Q11
Order of occurence in a sql statement (in which way they appear in a query)
select,where,group by,having

Q12
Studnet(sid,name,login,age,gpa)
ENrolled(sid,cid,grade)
SELECT DISTINCT cid from ENrolled Where Grade='C'

What does it do?

Q13
Consider Enrolled.sid as a FK to Student.SId
There are some commands to insert tuples in enrolled
The first command had a FK violation
The second one is alright
The third one had a FK violation
The fourth one is alright

There will be duplicates but its fine.

Q14
R(a,b) S(a,b) natural join of the tables in RA
It's an intersection


Q15
Consider Student(id,name,gpa), we want to select the student with the highest GPA, tell us which query doesn't give us the max

Some queries where provided, all of them were right, so the answer was "All the queries return what was described"

Q16

R - ( R - S) = ?

R intersection S

Q17
Select count(A),count(*)

How many tuples will the give us?
The table has 3 tuples in A != from null and 4 null tuples
therefore 3 4 (NUlls are basically unique)

Q18
R(A,B),s(B,c)
PK (A)
FK (B) Referencing S(B)

Corecct statement:
B is a primary key for S


Q19
Is select 1 a correct query?

Yes it's a correct query

Q20?
Can a FK be null?
Yes

Q21
is (D,f) a PK for T?

Yes but we cannot know for sure (tuples D,f were not repeated)

Q22
A weak entity...

Has its key made of attributes from other components



The rest were sql queries

Find the name and address of people who live in Toronto
Find name and salaries of all doctors who are currently treating ulcers and who earn less than 100k (currently, so exit date > current_date or ISNULL)
Find name,age,phone number of every patient whose fee is greater than 30k age can be calculate by doing CURRENT_YEAR() - dob.year
Find the SIN of every doctor who has at leat one male patient age >= 75
Find the name o every doctor who lives and works in the same city
Find the list of doctors that violate the rules that says that the patients of the doctors should all be in the same hospital with whih the doctor is affiliated

DB schema for SQL questions (same name means that it's a FK)
person (sin,name,gender,dob)
adddress (sin,number,street,city,phone)
patient(sin,disease,bed,room,hospital,fee,entry_date,exit_date)
treat(doctor,patient)
